1. Get ready for every journey
Before each trip, not only climbing, you need to prepare all the information as well as the items you need to bring. With climbing experience compiled from many sources, before climbing you need to prepare

1.1. Determine the right climbing time
Before participating in climbing, you need to determine the appropriate climbing time. The weather in Vietnam changes very erratically, sometimes it's sunny, and it's rainy, so before organizing climbing, you need to determine the right time. The dry season starts from November every year to April next year. This time is suitable for backpackers to organize mountain climbing.

1.2. Learn more about the place
Along with the time factor, the climbing location also needs to be arranged. Research the terrain in advance to prepare a suitable travel time, and arrive at the tourist destination at the scheduled time. At the same time, knowing the terrain where you participate in climbing helps improve safety during the journey.

1.3. Note about the weather
As mentioned above, the dry season starts from November to April next year, so it is quite suitable for climbing. However, there are occasional rains, so check the weather forecast before climbing. In addition, if you want to go to the forest in the rainy season, you should consider the safety factor as well as your own climbing experience.

1.4. Practice before the trip
Climbing experience is accumulated as you participate in many expeditions. However, before each trip, what you need to do is exercise yourself. Exercise to improve fitness, and help your body not be exhausted when the first high-intensity exercise. In addition, you should increase your resistance by adding vitamin-rich foods such as lemon juice, fresh fruit, etc.

2. Items to equip
A safe and effective climbing experience requires preparing the necessary equipment. Things to bring when climbing include:

2.1. Water and food
Climbing is a physical activity that requires a lot of sweat, so the body needs to be regularly hydrated. When climbing is tired and thirsty, do not drink continuously or take large sips of water because it will make the body uncomfortable. You should drink water in small sips and slowly swallow. In order not to interrupt the journey, you can hang a water bottle in front of your chest while walking and drinking. Besides drinking water, staying fit is also very important. Instead of cumbersome and time-consuming cooking dishes, you can eat high-energy foods such as chocolate, snicker cake, or dry food, which is both quick and easy to carry.

2.2. Mountain climbing outfit
The climbing experience for beginners is to choose light clothes, with good elasticity, sweat absorption, and quick perspiration. In addition, clothes with sunscreen and deodorant features should also be prioritized to wear when climbing.
Backpacks, water bags, wipes, gloves, and umbrellas are certain accessories that must be prepared for a comfortable trip
2.3. Other necessary items
Some other essential items to have when hiking are:
• Sticks: help support your body weight when you are tired, going down the mountain, …
• Lighter: a necessary item when going on an expedition.
• Watches, phones, warmers, power banks, gloves, hats, etc.
Learn about the essentials when climbing the mountain

3. Notes when climbing the mountain for those who have just started

3.1. Short roads suitable for the ability
When you first start climbing, you should not choose a long journey because your physical strength will certainly not be enough. Not only that, if you do not have experience in climbing, you should not join a long journey because you will not be able to ensure that the whole trip is smooth and safe. Therefore, beginners should choose for themselves a short climbing journey to get acquainted first.

3.2. Only bring what is absolutely necessary
Climbing is not easy, but on the contrary, this is a very strenuous activity. Therefore, to ensure the most comfortable trip, you only bring the items you really need during the climb. Making your luggage as light as possible will help you move more smoothly.

3.3. Choosing the right shoes and socks is very important
Choose shoes specifically for climbing activities. You can based on the terrain and your own needs choose a suitable shoe for you. For socks, it is advisable to choose a higher collar than the shoe collar, especially in forests with lots of squeegees.
Shoes and socks suitable for climbing activities

3.4. Learn how to use survival items
Besides the preparation, learning how to use survival items is also one of the climbing experiences. Mastering survival items helps you improve your safety, especially when you get lost in the forest.

3.5. Allocate energy for the whole journey
Improve your body's stamina by working out before every ride. At the same time, evenly distribute energy for the whole journey so that you don't lose your breath when you are only halfway there.
